Welcome in this lecture we are diving back into C++ to implement sub menu switching.
So now when we click add join button it opens up and join menu and simultaneously.
We've implemented a cancel button on an join menu which when we hit the cancel button guess what goes
back to the main menu and I can switch between these all day.
Let's figure out how to implement this in seapass plus in this lecture.
So we've got multiple menus at this stage and at the moment we can move between them and I dont really
want to do the same blueprint because its heavy logic I'd like to prefer to do.
My logic in C++ where I'm more comfortable and it's going to be more performance although that's kind
of a secondary reason at this point.
So the first thing we want to do is get hold of our widget switcher in C++.
Now we know the mechanism for doing this is binding So let's go over to visual studio project and have
a go at binding our widget switcher.
So if we go to our head of file in the main menu dot H then we can create a new york property.
I'm going to copy the join you property and use that as a base.
Now what's the class going to be is the first question that might pop into your head which is we've
been doing it where you button up till now.
Well to find out it's fairly straightforward we have to do is go and hover over our widgets which are
menu switcher which is actually called the widgets which are.
And see that it is indeed called a widget switcher.
So probably I'm going to take a wild stab in the dark here.
But I think it might be just as simple as being a you widgets which is let's try that you widget switcher.
That's obviously not going to tell me here in the head of file because I'm doing a forward declaration
any way and it could well be that I've just you know just defined a completely new class that didn't
exist before.
But what is going to help us if we go into the C++ file at the top of the C++ file we're including the
button in order to have the details and what functions we can call on that button and we can try and
do the same thing with the widgets which I'm going to copy that include and change the included file
from button to widgets which are.
And we'll see if that is going to be happy enough to compile.
So I can go ahead and hit build a control shift be to hit build and see whether it's happy in that file
if it's happing clean that file.
I'm fairly sure what we've got on our hands is a new widget switcher.
So the obvious areas errors it's giving me here are that I've declared joined twice obviously don't
want to declare join twice.
I want to create a property and I call it widgets.
Let's see menu switcher because that's actually what we've called it already in our blueprint so it's
automatically going to bind by name because we've called the property menu switcher we've called the
actual widget in the hierarchy many switch that will bring them together.
So let's try and build it again and see whether this time everything is going to be happy.
Sure enough we have got a successful build here.
So we're definitely dealing with the new widget switcher.
So let's have a look at its API actually a fairly simple one here if we go and scroll down the page
you'll see that there is a few variables.
The active widget index which is what we've been using to change things around.
But furthermore we've got some helpful functions in here such as it get you can get the number of widgets
that we can switch between we can get the widget at a certain index so we can actually get the you widget
back.
That that's an index we can set the ADD div widget by passing in a widget pointer or we can set an active
widget by passing in an index.
Lots of options there for us to choose from.
So of those which are we going to go for.
Well we are clicking the join button remember and we're wanting to show up the join menu.
Now the join menu is the fact that is is a join menu not the fact that it is widget one or widgets zero
if I added in more widgets that index would change.
So I would rather not use a set active widget index I'd rather set by the widget itself and connect
it up by name and do some binding to make sure I've got the right widget there.
So let's go ahead and switch those menus around do a little menu switcheroo.
The way I'm going to do this is first of all bind something to an join button so we've got our join
button here and I'm sick of these buttons actually being called host unjoin that's kind of a bit deceptive
that they're not.
They're not functions that host or join.
They are buttons so let's go ahead and rename those I've got host.
They're going to rename to host button I've got join which I'm going to rename to join button.
Now I just got to go into the C++ and find any instances where I've referred to host.
I don't.
There's a couple of places I referred to house this is referring to a house method so it's actually
a different thing at the top.
We've got HOST So I can change that to host button.
And I can do the same in the B.
Call to bind it's on.
Click.
And we have done anything with joined button yet but we're going to we're going do very much the same
thing as we've done with our host buttons and just going to copy that over and change the name from
host to join in both.
The if statement and the binding and then what we're going to bind too well for that we need to create
ourselves a new.
Functions I'm going to copy the host server.
That's not going to be just join server because we know that it's going to take us to a joined menu.
So I'm going to call this open join menu.
Okay.
And then we're going to bind to open join menu.
But first I'm going to actually declare the body of this.
And I put that under right the bottom under host server add the namespace for the class.
And a body which is going to be empty for now.
And then we are going to bind to that.
Let's copy its name open join menu.
I'm going to go over at the top of the file and where we are binding for our joined button I'm going
to join by to join menu.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and build and make sure all that's working.
That's not going to do very much because at the moment we're just doing an Open menu call.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use this opportunity to make use of our menu switcher.
So we're going to go to the menu switcher and then use the arrow operator and then we're going to do
a set active widget which is going to take a widget which we currently don't have.
So I'm going to pass in now for now and let's not forget to change that.
And I also want to ensure that our menu switch is not no it shouldn't be necessary but just in case
I am super paranoid about dereferencing null pointers and our engine coming crashing down around our
ears.
So let's make sure that we have just checked the menu switch it is indeed not a null pointer.
Okay so now we want to actually have this widget.
And as I alluded to already we want to do that via a binding.
So I'm going to copy our binding for the new widgets which are in the head file and make a copy of that
and we're going to be binding basically any you widget so we can change the pointer to you with it.
Now if you weren't sure that all these things are you widgets the you button the you widgets which you
can always look and documentation.
Have a look at the class hierarchy and see that at the top of it all is the widget.
Now the reason I'm doing this is because sometimes we want to change the usage at the moment it's a
size box for the root of am joined menu but it might well be a vertical box or something else it doesn't
really matter what type of widget is it just needs to be at the root of that widget hierarchy.
Okay so the name is important we want to call it the join menu like so.
So it's a you widget join menu automatically bound to the thing called join menu and then what I can
do is over in my main key again probably doing an Ensure beforehand to make sure that our.
Join menus not know.
I'm going to do a null return and I'm going to make this in to join menu like so and then I can use
the join menu pointer in a set active widget.
Fantastic.
So I think that's ready to build.
Let's go ahead and build it and see if we're going to basically have our widget compile and see whether
the widget is actually functional.
It looks like the compile was a success.
So let's go over in to unreel and just check whether it compiles.
Nope something is not compiling what it is not compiling the host button and joined button which will
change the name.
So let's go ahead and change the name in the hierarchy as well.
Mind first the host button which I'm going to change to from called host to host button and the join
button which I'm also going to rename from join to join button like so.
And then we can compile and see that there are no errors so we can go ahead and play.
And now if I hit my join button sure enough the join menu pops up Huzza fantastic.
So what do we want to do now.
What am I unsure about at this point.
Well I think that we need a back button because if someone click the Join many and then the light on
oh I don't actually know anybody's IP address I need to host a game then they cant get back without
actually quitting which is a bit rubbish.
So let's figure out how to do that.
This is actually going to be a challenge for you to create the back button.
We are going to start off the first thing you want to do is put it in a sensible place and a sensible
look and sensible style then bind it in using widget binding and create a call-back and bind the call
back to a function use C++ and then switch to the main menu when it is clicked so pause the video and
have a go at testing out your knowledge about binding as well as the widgets which are by doing this
challenge.
Okay welcome back.
I'm going to have a go now myself.
So first things first let's dive right in with our creating a back button.
So I'm going to get my join many that is the obvious place to put back.
But in actual fact I think what I'm going to do here is take the team button and I want to put it next
to my join button so have a join and cancel button next to each other.
And what I'm going to do to do that is basically copy from our main menu where we've already got a horizontal
box so going to copy that horizontal box that is already well laid out for having two buttons next to
each other.
And I'm going to put it underneath the in the vertical box.
They go we've got host and join now.
I can remove that join button at the top there.
And it's looking more or less right except host should no longer say host it should now say something
else like cancell back then I'm going to go with cancel.
Like so we can cancel it or we can join if we go ahead and play that to preview.
Go to join menu read a cancel button that currently does nothing and join button that does nothing.
Let's make our cancel button for starters actually do something.
So we're going to give that button a handy name such as cancell rather than button one.
So going to call this the canso fact let's call it the cancell join menu button.
Because if we had other cancel buttons in other subs dialogues such as an options dialogue then we might
want that to be named differently so cancell join menu button.
Very simple let's go over back to visual studio.
And in visual studio we're going to have to do our binding as I said.
So I'm going to just paste in a button name for now.
Going to take my join button and duplicate it.
And I'm going to put my button name in place of that second button.
So we've got two buttons now or three buttons a join button a button and a cancel join menu button.
Now we want to do the binding to do that.
I first need a function to bind to so I am going to copy my open join menu to be a C load main menu
is basically what we want to do or open main menu.
So.
So we got open join menu open main menu and let's go back over to assy plus plus then do the binding
of the button itself.
I'm going to copy the binding for the join button.
It is all pretty.
Copy and paste exercise really.
Let's go to the council join menu button and use that just copied and paste the cancelled join many
button text to replace it in our initialise method.
And then we want to bind that to the method called Open main menu so I go back to their had a file copy
the name of the function.
I paste it in to.
Our binding call for a cancelled join menu button and now all I've got to do is actually implement that.
So I'm going to do that by copying and pasting the implementation again of the open join menu.
Like so I'm going to copy and paste the name.
Open main menu.
Because I don't trust myself to type everything correctly.
I tend to copy and paste.
Okay so we've got our menu switcher we've got ADD join menu and it's actually at the moment going to
set the active widget as the join menu so that's not correct.
We need to bind to the not the join many but the main menu so let's copy our bind widget for the U widget
join menu that should be the bottom one for me.
Then I copy that one out and fix up the indentation which just got messed up and I'm going to call that.
Let's see.
My wants to call it the same thing as it's currently called a hierarchy which I believe is just main
menu.
Indeed it is.
So let's go back into visual studio.
And just call it the main menu.
So we've got a new widget main menu you widget join menu.
And we can switch between them using our widgets which are all of which all these important properties
have been bound here into the C plus plus So we have access to them in C++.
How handy is that.
So we're going to go to main menu.
So when we do open main menu we set the active widget as the main menu so let's go ahead and save that
compile that and see whether we're getting the right back button behaviour.
Okay the compellation has succeeded Let's go in to unreal and see our main menu working.
Let's go ahead and play to preview this.
Then go hit join and hit cancel join cancel join cancel.
Yay it works we can go backwards and forwards in our menu.
I'm going to submenus and go back to the top level main menu again.
I'm very happy.
Here's a very cool thing which I didn't even have in my prototype for this project so we've just gone
and done something a little bit beyond the prototype and I'll see you in the next lecture where we're
going to make this join dialogue actually functional.
Looking forward to seeing you there.